NEXT-12736 - Add guide on how to create custom list filters (#206)
shopware/docs: guides/plugins/plugins/storefront/add-listing-filters.md

Let's use the last filter to extend this template with our filter. If you're not sure on how to customize templates
in the storefront, we got you covered with another guide:

{% page-ref page="./customize-templates.md" %}

For example, let's use the last filter: It's the shipping free one, with the block 
`component_filter_panel_item_shipping_free`. Including our filter will be done as seen below, please take the 
comments into account:

{% code title="<plugin root>/src/Subscriber/ExampleListingSubscriber.php" %}
```twig
{% sw_extends '@Storefront/storefront/component/listing/filter-panel.html.twig' %}

{% block component_filter_panel_item_shipping_free %}
    {{ parent() }}
   
    {# We'll include our filter element here #}
    {% sw_include '@Storefront/storefront/component/listing/filter/filter-boolean.html.twig' with {
        name: 'isCloseout',
        displayName: 'Closeout'
    } %}
{% endblock %}
```
{% endcode %}

As wee want to filter a boolean value, we choose the `filter-boolean` component here. Sure, there are some more you 
can use - dependent on your filter's values:

| Name | Description |
| --- | --- | 

> | `filter-boolean` |  |

Author: ```suggestion
| `filter-boolean` | A filter to display boolean values  |
```

> | `filter-multi-select` |  |

Author: ```suggestion
| `filter-multi-select` | Filters with multiple values |
```

> | `filter-property-select` |  |

Author: ```suggestion
| `filter-property-select` |  A filter tailored specifically for properties |
```

> | `filter-range` |    |

Author: ```suggestion
| `filter-range` |  Displays a range which can be used for filtering  |
```

> | `filter-rating-select` |  |

Author: ```suggestion
| `filter-rating-select` |  Filter component for rating  |
```

| `filter-rating-select-item` |  |

## Next steps

> Are you interested to add a custom sorting to your listing in the storefront, as well? Head over to the corresponding

Author: ```suggestion
Are you interested to add a custom sorting to your listing in the storefront as well? Head over to the corresponding
```

# Add custom listing filters

## Overview

In an online shop, filters are an important feature. So you might use filters in your custom plugin. This guide will
get you covered on how to implement your own, custom filters in Shopware's storefront.

## Prerequisites

> Before you starting reading this guide, make sure you got an own plugin installed to work with. If you need a starting 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Before you start reading this guide, make sure you got an own plugin installed to work with. If you need a starting 
```

point for that, see this guide:

{% page-ref page="./../plugin-base-guide.md" %}

## Create new Filter

> At first, you need to create a subscriber -  in this example we'll call it `ExampleListingSubscriber`. If you're not

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At first, you need to create a subscriber - in this example we'll call it `ExampleListingSubscriber`. If you're not
```

sure on working with subscribers, please refer to the guide on working with events in Shopware:

{% page-ref page="./../plugin-fundamentals/listening-to-events.md" %}

> As you're familiar with other customization, we'll start creating this new class in the same path as you're seeing in

Reviewer: "As you're familiar with other customization"

What do you want to say here ? That a plugin developer usually should copy Shopware's business logic directory structure ? If so, I find this sentence highly confusing. I'd suggest sth easier like:

```suggestion
As usual, we'll start by creating this new class in the same path as you're seeing in
```

Shopware's core - `/src/Subscriber/ExampleListingSubscriber.php`.

New listing filters, e.g. for your product listing, can be registered via the event `\Shopware\Core\Content\Product\Events\ProductListingCollectFilterEvent`
This event was introduced to enable every developer to specify the metadata for a filter. The handling, meaning if and 
how a filter is added, is done by Shopware's core:

> ```php

Reviewer: Code blocks ?

> ```javascript

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```php
```

isn't it php code?

>     public static function getSubscribedEvents()

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    public static function getSubscribedEvents(): array
```

    {
        return [
            ProductListingCollectFilterEvent::class => 'addFilter'
        ];
    }
```

After that, you can start to actually add your custom filters. Arguably an important step is to define your filter.
Therefore, you're able to use the `Filter` class, including the parameters below:

| Parameter | Description |
| --- | --- | 
| `name` | Unique name of the filter |
| `filtered` | Set this option to `true` if this filter is active |
| `aggregations` | Defines aggregations behind a filter. Sometimes a filter contains multiple aggregations like properties |
| `filter` | Sets the DAL filter which should be added to the criteria    |
| `values` | Defines the values which will be added as `currentFilter` to the result |
| `exclude` | Configure exclusions |

As a result, an example filter could look like this:

> ```php

Reviewer: Code Blocks ?

$filter = new Filter(
    // name
    'manufacturer',
    
    // filtered
    !empty($ids),
    
    // aggregations
    [new EntityAggregation('manufacturer', 'product.manufacturerId', 'product_manufacturer')],
    
    // filter
    new EqualsAnyFilter('product.manufacturerId', $ids),
    
    // values
    $ids
);
```

> So you get the existing filters by `ProductListingCollectFilterEvent`, define your new custom filter and add it to the
> existing ones. Here is a complete example implementation, implementing a filter on the product information `isCloseout`.
> please note the comments for explanation:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Inside the `ProductListingCollectFilterEvent`, you get the existing filters, can define your new custom filters and merge them into the existing ones.
Here is a complete example implementation, adding a filter on the product information `isCloseout`.
Please note the comments for explanation:
```

{% code title="<plugin root>/src/Subscriber/ExampleListingSubscriber.php" %}
```php
class ExampleListingSubscriber implements EventSubscriberInterface
{

>     // Register event

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
    // register event
```

    public static function getSubscribedEvents(): array
    {
        return [
            ProductListingCollectFilterEvent::class => 'addFilter'
        ];
    }

>     public function addFilter(ProductListingCollectFilterEvent $event)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    public function addFilter(ProductListingCollectFilterEvent $event): void
```

    {

>         // Fetch existing filters

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
        // fetch existing filters
```

        $filters = $event->getFilters();
        $request = $event->getRequest();

        $filtered = (bool) $request->get('isCloseout');

        $filter = new Filter(

>             //unique name of the filter

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
            // unique name of the filter
```

            'isCloseout',
            
            // defines if this filter is active

>             $filtered === true,

Reviewer: This check is unnecessery :smile: 

You've just casted $filtered to be bool.

```suggestion
            $filtered,
```

Author: Yeah, possibly, I was referring to the core at this point 🙈

>             // Defines aggregations behind a filter. Sometimes a filter contains multiple aggregations like properties

Reviewer: ```suggestion
            // Defines aggregations behind a filter. A filter can contain multiple aggregations like properties
```

            [
                new FilterAggregation(
                    'active-filter',
                    new MaxAggregation('active', 'product.isCloseout'),
                    [new EqualsFilter('product.isCloseout', true)]
                ),
            ],
            
            
            // defines the DAL filter which should be added to the criteria   
            new EqualsFilter('product.isCloseout', true),
            
            // defines the values which will be added as currentFilter to the result
            $filtered
        );

        // Add your custom filter
        $filters->add($filter);
    }
}

```
{% endcode %}

## Add your filter to the Storefront UI

Well, fine - you successfully created a filter via subscriber. However, you want to enable your shop customer to use it, 

> right? Now you need to integrate your filter unto the storefront. Let's start by searching the template file you need 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
right? Now you need to integrate your filter in the storefront. Let's start by searching the template file you need 
```

comments into account:

{% code title="<plugin root>/src/Subscriber/ExampleListingSubscriber.php" %}
```twig
{% sw_extends '@Storefront/storefront/component/listing/filter-panel.html.twig' %}

{% block component_filter_panel_item_shipping_free %}
    {{ parent() }}
   
    {# We'll include our filter element here #}
    {% sw_include '@Storefront/storefront/component/listing/filter/filter-boolean.html.twig' with {
        name: 'isCloseout',
        displayName: 'Closeout'
    } %}
{% endblock %}
```
{% endcode %}

As we want to filter a boolean value, we choose the `filter-boolean` component here. Sure, there are some more you 
can use - dependent on your filter's values:

| Name | Description |
| --- | --- | 
| `filter-boolean` | A filter to display boolean values  |
| `filter-multi-select` | Filters with multiple values |
| `filter-property-select` |  A filter tailored specifically for properties |
| `filter-range` |  Displays a range which can be used for filtering  |
| `filter-rating-select` and `filter-rating-select-item` |  Filter component for rating  |

## Next steps

> Are you interested to add a custom sorting to your listing in the storefront as well? Head over to the corresponding

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Are you interested in adding custom sorting options to your listing in the storefront as well? Head over to the corresponding
```
